This is the weekly individual reflection of Erik Näslund. I will be updating this file each week with a reflection entry by answering each of the following questions:

1. what do I want to learn or understand better?
2. how can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
3. what is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
4. what is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?


--------- Week 1 -----------
what do I want to learn or understand better?
I want to learn and understand how to work in a group better.

how can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
Right now our main goal is to understand working together as good as possible before we start working on the actual project.

what is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
I do not have any contribution towards the team's use of Scrum yet but when we start working on it 
i will make sure to have understood Scrum the best i can so i can help the team to use it correctly.

what is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
We have finished writing our Social Contract this week and my contribution was that i learned what it was and helped the team agree on what the social contract should include.

--------- Week 2 -----------

Questions 1-3 are the same as last week since we haven't really started working on the project yet.

4. What is my contribution towards the team's deliveries?
This week i planned when our meeting was to take place and helped create the project scope (business model and general idea 
of what we are going to do) as well as the mockup visual representation of the application.

--------- Week 3 -----------

what do I want to learn or understand better?
I want to be able to understand how to create an interactable map based on JavaFX. It should be a map of the world where you are
able to zoom in on, highlight and select all countries. This will be a vital feature of our project.

how can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
By learning this myself i will be able to tell the other members of my group how it works and how they can use it to create what we want our end result to be.

what is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
I have been assigned as PO 2 other members tasks. I also helped lay the foundation and preparation for our first sprint next week.
That being estimating and planning what all members should work on in the upcomming sprint.

what is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
This week we mostly laid the foundation of our project. I helped create various epics, user stories and estimating how much time each of those user stories should take. 
We also agreed on a clearer picture of what our end result for the project should be. We decided to devide the group into subgroups of 2. 
Me and Anton were decided to be one of those subgroups. Me and Anton have been working on and understanding creating an interactable map using javaFX.

--------- Week 4 -----------

